Welcome to JW Broadcasting for November 2023.
On October 7th, the Watchtower Bible and Track Society of Pennsylvania held its annual meeting.
Usually, you would be viewing this portion of the program in January 2024.
However, you are now able to enjoy four talks this month, November 2023.
These talks have been especially prepared at the direction of the governing body.
They want the worldwide brotherhood to be aware of the content as soon as possible.
Please, pay close attention and enjoy the program.
Well, it's an absolute delight to be here today, isn't it?
And you're going to get happier as the morning goes long.
The annual meeting, as an example, I'm going to pick a year of 2013.
Now, that annual meeting has been called Landmark.
We've even stated that. We called it a Landmark annual meeting.
You might think that all annual meetings are Landmark, and many of us here would agree with that.
But that one was very special. At that meeting, the revised edition of the New World Translation in English was released.
Very special annual meeting.
And that Landmark Bible release continues to be a blessing for many people around the earth as more languages are added.
Now, 10 years later, exactly 10 years later, we have arrived at another truly Landmark annual meeting.
This time, Jehovah has helped the faithful and discreet slave to discern deeper principles
and understanding from that very same word of truth.
And this understanding is now going to be passed on to you.
Are you ready? Are you excited to hear it?
Let's listen very carefully to this next symposium.
And again, each speaker will introduce the next one on the program.
Please pay close attention to Brother Gage Flegal as he begins with the talk entitled Love Jehovah Praise Jehovah.
The day was nice in 1133 CE. Jesus was busy in the temple teaching just a few days prior to his death.
He silenced the scribes and the Pharisees with his irrefutable logic.
At the same time, sharing some of the most profound teachings of his earthly ministry.
For instance, pay back Caesar's things to Caesar, but God's things to God.
Then one of the scribes came forward and asked Jesus, what is the greatest commandment?
How did Jesus respond? His response would have far-reaching implications even down to our day for anyone claiming to be a Christian.
We find his response in Mark chapter 12. I invite you to turn there.
Mark chapter 12, and notice please with me verses 29 and 30.
Mark 12, 29 and 30. Jesus answered the first or the most important commandment.
The greatest commandment is, here, O Israel, Jehovah, our God is one Jehovah.
And you must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind and with your whole strength.
You must love Jehovah. Love God. It sounds simple, right?
Well, billions of people claim to love God, but they love pleasures more.
Or they're willing to fight and kill their fellow man. Or they refuse to live by God's moral standards.
All such things contradict their claim to love God.
Well, Jesus demonstrated that love of God requires more than a feeling of affection.
Jesus stressed how completely we must love God with our whole heart, with our whole soul, with our whole mind, with our whole strength.
Does that leave anything out? Our eyes, our ears, our hands?
Well, the study notes on verse 30 help us to understand that this includes our emotions, desires, and feelings.
It includes our intellectual faculties and power of reason. It includes our physical and mental strength.
Yes, our whole being, all that we are, we must devote to our love to Jehovah.
Love for God must govern a person's entire life. Nothing is left out.
Well, shortly after emphasizing the greatest commandment, and again, we're thinking of Jesus.
He's there in the temple shortly after emphasizing the greatest commandment.
Jesus shines a light on both bad and good examples of love for God.
First, he sharply condemned the scribes and the Pharisees for their pretense of love for God.
Now, if you want the full condemnation, it's found in Matthew chapter 23.
Those hypocrites, they gave even the tenth or a tithe of small tiny herbs,
but they ignored the weightier matters of justice and mercy and faithfulness.
That was the bad example.
But then Jesus gave his attention to an outstanding example of love for God.
If you're still there in Mark chapter 12, notice starting in verse 41.
And Jesus sat down with the treasury chests in view and began observing how the crowd was dropping money into the treasury chests.
And many rich people were dropping in many coins.
Now, a poor widow came and dropped in two small coins, a very little value.
So he called his disciples to him and said to them,
Truly, I say to you that this poor widow put in more than all the others who put money into the treasury chests.
For they all put in out of their surplus, but she out of her want put in everything she had, all she had to live on.
The coins of the needy widow were worth about 15 minutes wages.
Yet Jesus expressed his father's view of her worship.
He commended her whole soul's sacrifice.
What do we learn?
Well, clearly the lessons go far beyond material giving.
Motive in our worship of Jehovah is important to him.
Jehovah doesn't compare us with others or even previous versions of ourselves, younger versions of ourselves.
Jehovah simply wants love for him with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength.
Not as they were 10 or 20 years ago, but as they currently are now.
Now a question in reference to love for Jehovah.
Is it reasonable for Jehovah to expect us to love him with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength?
Is it reasonable?
Yes, absolutely. Why can we say that?
Because Jehovah loves us with his whole heart, soul, mind, and strength.
How so?
Well, let's turn to Isaiah chapters 40 through 44.
And there will consider a few of the many reasons we have to love Jehovah.
And at the same time, we'll consider some examples of the depth of Jehovah's love for us.
So our first example is in Isaiah chapter 40 and notice please verse 11.
Isaiah 40 verse 11.
There it says, like a shepherd, he will care for his flock.
With his arm, he will gather together the lambs, and in his bosom he will carry them.
He will gently lead those nursing their young.
Here we find a beautiful word picture of Jehovah. Jehovah is a tender shepherd.
At Ezekiel chapter 34 verses 15 and 16, Jehovah says,
I myself will feed my sheep.
The last one I will search for, the stray, I will bring back the injured, I will bandage as we notice in the illustration.
And the weak, I will strengthen what a touching picture of compassion and tender care.
If we fall in hurt ourselves, or if we stumble in the briar patch, sort of speak,
Jehovah bandages us. He helps us to heal.
When we seek his help, he doesn't reproach us.
You should have known better, no.
But he does try to help us not to stray in the future with reminders from his word.
And what is the effect on the sheep?
Well, as we saw in the illustration, he feels secure in Jehovah's care.
How do we feel in Jehovah's care? His compassion at care.
We too feel secure.
We might say that Jehovah loves us with all his heart, his compassion.
Doesn't that increase your love for him?
Let's consider a second reason why we have, that we have to love Jehovah.
Isaiah chapter 40, notice verses 28 and 29.
Verse 28 says, do you not know, have you not heard?
Jehovah, the creator of the ends of the earth, is a God for all eternity.
He never tires out or grows weary.
His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the tired one.
And full might to those lacking strength.
With Jehovah's mighty Holy Spirit, he created everything, beginning with his firstborn son.
To myriads of mighty Spirit creatures.
To the vast universe, with its trillions upon trillions of stars,
to this beautiful earth, with its endless variety of plant and animal life.
To the human body, with its awe-inspiring ability and versatility.
Jehovah is truly the almighty creator.
Now, think about this.
What happens when you or I become completely exhausted, completely tired?
Maybe at the end of a long day, when a human becomes physically tired?
How does he recharge?
Do we plug into a charging station like an electric car?
No.
We're marvelously designed to recharge through rest.
And the food that we take into our bodies are fuel.
The calories, the energy and food are evidence of Jehovah's love.
Not only does it recharge us, but it brings us to light, too.
What did you have for breakfast?
Maybe here at the assembly hall.
The average glazed doughnut contains about 190 to 300 calories.
We hope you're not counting calories during this annual meeting season.
But whatever your choice, the energy and food is a gift of Almighty God to help sustain us.
To recharge us.
Now, a question that we ask, though, what happens when we become tired of dealing with life's trials?
Maybe with problems that don't have a solution in this system of things?
Well, when we maintain a good spiritual routine, then Jehovah gives us power.
Power to the tired one.
His Holy Spirit strengthens us, enables us to go forward in the battle yet another day.
Power beyond what is normal strengthens us.
Yes, Jehovah gives power to the tired one.
We might say that Jehovah loves us with all his strength.
Doesn't that draw you to him as a person?
Let's consider another reason we have to love Jehovah.
This time in Isaiah chapter 41, verses 10 and 13,
there our God says, do not be afraid for I am with you.
Do not be anxious for I am your God.
I will fortify you. Yes, I will help you.
I will really hold on to you with my right hand of righteousness.
Verse 13, for I, Jehovah your God, am grasping your right hand.
The one saying to you, do not be afraid, I will help you.
Jehovah is our helper.
Jehovah grasps our right hand with his right hand of righteousness.
In other words, he at times pulls us out of distressing circumstances in life.
Jehovah rescued his people from slavery in Egypt.
Isaiah 63 verse 9 says, during all their distress, it was distressing to him.
And he lifted them up and carried them all the days of old.
When was the last time that Jehovah rescued you from a trial?
In Psalm 18, David used very poetic language to describe Jehovah's remarkable ability to rescue us.
Psalm 18 verses 8 through 10.
Smoke ascended from his nostrils and a consuming fire came from his mouth.
He made the heavens bend as he descended and thick gloom was beneath his feet.
He rode on a cherub and came flying.
He swooped down on the wings of a spirit.
Verse 16 says, he reached down from on high.
He took hold of me and pulled me from deep waters.
Verse 19, he brought me out into a place of safety.
He rescued me because he was pleased with me.
Can you imagine Jehovah reaching down with his right hand of righteousness and rescuing you from a trial?
Why?
Because Jehovah loves us with all his soul, his whole being.
How does that make you feel?
Does it draw you closer to your Heavenly Father?
Let's consider a fourth reason we have to love Jehovah.
Isaiah 42 verses 8 and 9.
It says, I am Jehovah.
That is my name.
I give my glory to no one else, nor my praise to graven images.
See, the first things have come to pass.
Now I am declaring new things.
Before they spring up, I tell you about them.
Why is this a reason to love Jehovah?
He's a God of prophecy.
What does that mean in simple terms?
Well, Jehovah keeps his promises.
It's linked to his name, Jehovah,
which we understand to mean he causes to become.
Not one word of all his good promise that he made through Moses, his servant, has failed.
Who said it?
Well, Joshua and Solomon both expressed similar thoughts.
But now here we are 3000 years after Solomon.
We have more reasons to say that.
More prophecies have been fulfilled since then.
God's kingdom rules.
Pure worship has been restored.
We can emphatically say, not one word of all Jehovah's good promises has failed.
But how does that make us love him more?
Well, prophecy is the basis for hope.
So when we hear Isaiah 33, 24, or John 5, 28, and 29, or Revelation 21, 3, and 4,
we think about the effect that the disappearance of sickness, pain, and death will have for us and for our loved ones.
The resurrection.
Do you long to welcome back loved ones?
It's as good as done.
God's personal name is a guarantee.
Jehovah makes the dead alive and calls the things that are not as though they are.
Why?
Because his promises are absolutely certain of fulfillment.
Jeremiah 29 verse 11.
There, Jehovah says, I will know the thoughts that I am thinking toward you.
Thoughts of peace and not of calamity to give you a future and a hope.
Let's say Jehovah loves us with all his mind.
Jehovah will make his very own thoughts toward you a reality.
How does that make you feel?
Well, from Isaiah's prophecy, we've considered just four reasons to love Jehovah.
First, he's our shepherd.
Second, he's our creator.
Third, he's our helper.
And finally, he's a God of prophecy.
Certainly, you can think of other reasons to love Jehovah.
Note what a few individuals said when asked why they particularly loved Jehovah.
One brother said, I love Jehovah because he listens to my prayers.
When sister said, Jehovah is approachable.
It's a privilege to have a friend who I can talk to at any moment of the day
and know that he will understand me.
Another sister said, because of all the things he made for absolutely no reason
except that he loves us.
We don't need to taste food to survive.
The sunset doesn't need to be beautiful.
Music doesn't have to exist, but it does.
One reason I love Jehovah is because he goes above and beyond
and his love for us.
Another brother said this, I love Jehovah for his forgiveness.
And really, doesn't that bring to our minds Jehovah's greatest expression of love?
The ransom sacrifice of his son, Jesus.
So the question for each of us, why do I love Jehovah?
Why do you love Jehovah?
Well, what does our love motivate us to do?
It's linked with the words of Isaiah chapter 43 verse 10.
Isaiah 43 verse 10, Jehovah says, you are my witnesses.
Yes, my servant to my have chosen.
How thrilling it must have been in 1931 to hear brother Rutherford express
the new name that we've come to cherish, 1931, Jehovah's Witnesses.
And for what purpose has Jehovah chosen us as witnesses?
Isaiah 43, notice verse 21, it says, the people whom I formed for myself
so that they might declare my praise.
Jehovah has chosen us to declare his praise.
Love Jehovah, praise Jehovah.
What a privilege.
Jehovah could use rocks, he could use trees, he could use birds, he could use beasts of the field.
But no, he's chosen his faithful servants, he's chosen you and me to declare his praise.
Recently on a trip to the Western United States, my wife and I were able to observe
bison, elk, and mousse from a safe distance, of course.
They're humongous, very powerful animals.
Well, what if Jehovah had chosen one of them to declare his praise?
Every time you would approach, they would say praise jaw.
But he hasn't.
They just eat grass.
They praise Jehovah in a different way.
But the fact of the matter is, Jehovah has chosen us to declare his praise,
to extol his virtues.
Jehovah isn't looking for programmed praise or forced or coerced praise,
but praise that comes from a heart full of love.
Love for God's remarkable qualities motivates us to tell the whole world about our great God.
But many don't want to listen.
What if we face opposition, even from governments?
Isaiah 44 verse 8 is what we need to keep in mind,
because as we've considered already during this program,
the time will come when we're going to face opposition.
Isaiah 44 verse 8, some of our brothers in many places are already facing opposition.
Notice what it says, do not be in dread.
Do not become paralyzed with fear.
Have I not told each of you beforehand and declared it, you are my witnesses.
Is there any God but me?
No, there is no other rock.
I know of none.
Jehovah says, do not be in dread.
Do not become paralyzed with fear.
Payback Caesar's things to Caesar, but God's things to God.
Caesar is on shaky ground when he interferes with what God requires.
So rather than being paralyzed with fear,
love for Jehovah conquers fear and moves us to continue praising him.
And we've seized such determination in our international family of witnesses,
a faithful sister named Tatiana.
Her criminal case for praising Jehovah is pending,
and her husband is currently in pretrial detention.
But she says, during the most difficult moments, I continue to sense that Jehovah is with me
and I feel confident that with his help, I can endure whatever trials may yet come.
My heart is filled with peace and calmness.
I am more determined than ever to tell others about Jehovah.
I am proud to be one of Jehovah's witnesses.
Yes, Tatiana's love for Jehovah moves her to continue praising him.
Well, the Bible doesn't tell us how many hours we have to share in the ministry each month.
But it does tell us that love for God must be our motivation.
The greater our love, the fuller our share will be in accord with our personal circumstances.
We prove that we are Jehovah's witnesses by our conduct and by our zeal in praising him formally and informally.
May our deep love for Jehovah move us to tell as many people as possible about our great God, Jehovah.
Well, the next three talks of this symposium will discuss how love for Jehovah motivated his people in ancient times.
The second talk or the third talk will discuss how love for Jehovah motivates his people in modern times
and finally how the second greatest commandment should motivate us.
Will we hear some adjustments?
Will we consider a fresh approach to our ministry?
Stay tuned!
First, we'll give our attention to Brother Garrett and Lush, a member of the governing body who will discuss the theme love for Jehovah in ancient times.
All of us appreciate and enjoy receiving a gift.
But to be able to give a gift to others brings us even more joy.
As the great giver of all good things, Jehovah rejoices in giving and wants humans to enjoy giving.
He is the first giver, he is the greatest giver.
He gave life to spirit sons and to humans. He gave Adam a lovely wife. He gave them a paradise to live in.
In turn, Adam and Eve were given the opportunity to give of their time and energy to take care of the earthly home and to spread the garden of Eden into a global paradise inhabited by righteous humans.
Later in human history, Jehovah created the nation of Israel and gave them a beautiful land full of good things.
How could the Israelites show their appreciation?
Jehovah again provided an opportunity for his people to give.
In this case, he gave them a command to tithe.
What is that?
The tithe means to give a tenth of something.
Israelites were to give Jehovah a tenth of all their produce and animals.
We can read that account at Leviticus chapter 27 verses 30 and 32.
Follow me as I read from the screen verse 30 says,
Every tenth part of the land, whether from the produce of a field or the fruit of the trees, belongs to Jehovah.
It is something holy to Jehovah.
Verse 32 says,
Did you notice that Jehovah said the tithe was a holy gift that belonged to him?
And yet, what did Jehovah do with that tithe?
He generously gave it or passed it on to the tribe of the Levites who had no land inheritance.
Again, follow along on the screen as I read Numbers chapter 18 verse 21.
Now see that I have given to the sons of Levi every tenth part in Israel as an inheritance in return for the service they are carrying out, the service of the tent of meeting.
Verse 24 says,
For I have given to the Levites as an inheritance, the tenth part contributed by the people of Israel, which they will contribute to Jehovah.
That is why I have said to them, in the midst of the Israelites, they should not take possession of an inheritance.
Think how this arrangement proved to be a blessing to the Levites who devoted their time and attention to Jehovah's service at the tabernacle.
The arrangement also proved to be a blessing to all Israel to have one tribe completely devoted to carrying further tabernacle and later the temple of Jehovah.
But how would the Levites show their appreciation and love to Jehovah?
They also were commanded to tithe.
According to verses 26 through 29, they would contribute a tenth of their contributions which they received to the eronic priests for their support.
It seems the Israelites were also required to set aside an additional tenth to cover the expense of attending the three national festivals to Jehovah.
Every third and sixth year these funds were given to the Levites, alien residents, widows and fatherless boys in the local community.
So what have we learned about giving and tithing?
As we have seen, the tithing arrangement provided a wonderful way for God's people to show their love and appreciation for Jehovah and to support pure worship.
Imagine also how those who were disadvantaged, the alien residents, widows and fatherless boys also appreciated this loving provision.
But did you know there was something else very interesting about the tithing arrangement?
Nowhere in the Scriptures did Jehovah arrange for any human to monitor whether each person was really giving the entire tenth of his produce and his animals.
And no one was assigned to enforce compliance with the tithing arrangement.
So although it was required by law, tithing was entirely between the individual Israelite and Jehovah.
Thus the arrangement allowed each Israelite to demonstrate his personal love for Jehovah.
But what if somebody secretly held back and did not give Jehovah the whole tith, perhaps giving less than a tenth?
How would Jehovah feel about that?
Would he be inclined to bless those who were stingy?
That's not likely.
On the other hand, how would Jehovah feel about those who generously gave even more than a tenth?
Well, we don't have to get.
Remember when Faithful King Hezekiah promoted pure worship and encouraged tithing?
What happened?
Let's see at 2 Chronicles chapter 31 verses 4 through 6.
Furthermore, he commanded the people living in Jerusalem to give the portion to the priests and the Levites so that they might adhere strictly to the law of Jehovah.
As soon as the order was issued, the Israelites gave in great quantities the first fruits of the grain, new wine, oil, and honey, and of all the produce of the field.
They brought in abundantly the tenth of everything, and the people of Israel and of Judah living in the cities of Judah also brought in the tenth of cattle and sheep
and the tenth of the holy things that were sanctified to Jehovah their God.
They brought it in and put it in many heaps.
So how did Jehovah feel about the generosity of his people?
Let's note verses 9 and 10.
Hezekiah asked the priests and the Levites about the heaps, and as a rye of the chief priests of the house of Zadok said to him,
from the time they started bringing the contributions into the house of Jehovah, the people have been eating to satisfaction, and there is still an abundant surplus for Jehovah has blessed his people, and this great plenty is left over.
Yes, Jehovah richly blessed faithful ones who generously supported the tithing arrangement.
Sadly, Israel eventually lost their generous spirit and neglected the tith.
So, some years later, Jehovah inspired the prophet Malachi to remind the nation of their privilege of giving.
What did Jehovah say? Let's see at Malachi chapter 3 verse 10.
Bring the entire tith into the storehouse so that there may be food in my house and test me out, please, in this regard.
Jehovah of army says, to see whether I will not open to you the floodgates of the heavens and pour out on you a blessing until there is nothing lacking.
Can you imagine that it was as if Jehovah was challenging each Israelite to test him?
Would Jehovah really bless those who gave him the full ties so that they elect nothing?
Yes, absolutely. Today, of course, we are no longer under the Mosaic law with its tithing requirement,
rather than being commanded to give a tenth of our income, 2 Corinthians chapter 9 verse 7 says,
Let each one do just as he has resolved in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion for God loves a cheerful giver.
So, what have we learned from our brief discussion of tithing that Jehovah created us to find joy in giving?
And we give generously of our time and resources because we love Jehovah, not because someone is so observing and keeping track of what we do.
We also learned that Jehovah richly blesses obedience that comes from hearts full of love for him.
But is there more that we can learn from Jehovah's dealings with ancient Israel? Yes, we can learn from the Nazarite arrangement.
What was that? The Nazarite arrangement is described in Numbers chapter 6.
Let's read chapter 6 verses 1 and 2.
It says, Jehovah spoke further to Moses and said, Speak to the Israelites and tell them if a man or a woman takes a special vow to live as a Nazarite to Jehovah.
Notice that Israelites, both men and women could volunteer to become a Nazarite. This meant that they had to meet certain requirements that were not imposed on Israelites in general.
What were those requirements?
Numbers chapter 6 verses 3 to 7 explains that Nazarites had to, for one, avoid alcohol and anything made from the grape wine, second, avoid cutting their hair, third, avoid touching a dead body.
By voluntarily submitting to these additional requirements, Nazarites demonstrated their love for Jehovah in a special way. How so?
Imagine that you hire someone to perform repair work on your house. After performing the repair, the worker notices other repairs that are needed and he tells you he will do those as well at no additional charge.
How would you feel about this worker? Would you not appreciate his extra efforts to go beyond what he was asked to do?
You might even give him extra pay. And how would the worker feel? Because he is a generous person, he will experience the joy of giving more than what was asked.
The same was true of the Nazarites. Jehovah did not require anyone to become a Nazarite, but he created this arrangement. Why?
Evidently, he knew that some faithful Israelites would voluntarily submit to extra requirements out of their great love for him.
And their appreciation for Jehovah would prompt them to do even more for him.
No doubt this brought joy to Jehovah's heart to see his people manifest a generous, appreciative spirit in this way.
So what can we learn from the Nazarite arrangement?
That Jehovah deeply appreciates and favors those who show their love for him by going beyond what is required.
Today, this is true of ones who have their circumstances or the circumstances to pioneer and those who are able to serve as volunteers at branch offices and in other theocratic assignments.
As we know, Jehovah discontinued the Mosaic law with its provision for tithing for Nazarites and for the many animal sacrifices.
Colossians chapter 2 verse 14 says, Jehovah erased the handwritten document that is the law covenant.
However, are there lessons we can learn from these past arrangements for supporting pure worship?
Yes, Romans chapter 15 verse 4 reminds us that all the things that were written beforehand were written for our instruction.
So does Jehovah's organization today benefit from the principles behind the tithing and Nazarite arrangements?
How do we as individuals support modern-day arrangements for pure worship?
And does a closer examination of the arrangements for pure worship in ancient Israel indicate a need for further adjustments today?
For the answers to these questions, let us give our attention to Brother Samuel Hurd, a member of the governing body who will share the next talk in this symposium entitled Love for Jehovah in Modern Times.
As you listen to Brother Lose discuss the arrangement for tithing and Nazarite shit, did you try to make a connection with arrangements that we have for modern-day worship?
Maybe you were wondering, what corresponds to tithing today?
As Brother Lose mentioned, although tithing was a requirement for the Israelites, it also provided Jehovah's people with regular opportunities to demonstrate their love for Jehovah by giving him their best.
Of course, we no longer have a fixed amount of our income that we are commanded to give to Jehovah.
The tithing arrangement ended with the mosaic law, and Galatians chapter 6, verse 2, says we are now under the law of the Christ.
True Christians today give Jehovah just as they have resolved in their hearts.
But the tithing arrangement illustrates something that Jehovah still expects of his people today.
Remember the tith was to be not just a tith, but the best tith of a person's produce and his animals.
Jehovah deserves nothing less than our very best.
With that in mind, how can we give Jehovah our very best?
Of course, we try hard to obey all of Jehovah's commands, but there is one command that stands out as an identifying mark of true Christians today.
What is it?
Let's read it together on screen at Matthew chapter 28, verses 19 and 20.
He says, go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.
And look, I am with you all the days until the conclusion of the system of things.
Were you surprised that we read that verse? Of course not.
We see from these verses that the disciples making work is a requirement for all Christians.
And your dear brothers and sisters have built your lives around that scripture.
You have given and continued to give your very best to obey this life-saving command.
And we commend you for that.
Jehovah's organization has always been interested in seeing how this great worldwide work has been progressing.
We enjoy seeing our annual report published each year as we see the number of kingdom publishers increasing.
The worldwide report helps the governing body to see where to send missionaries, special pioneers and pioneers.
Let's watch a video that highlights how Jehovah's people have taken this commission seriously over the years.
When did we begin reporting field service activity?
Prior to 1920, only coal quarters, as pioneers were then called, were asked to submit reports.
But beginning in 1920, everyone in the congregation who participated in the witness work was asked to turn in a weekly report.
The 1920 annual service report for the United States was the first to include the activity of congregation publishers.
That report revealed that there were 8,052 class workers or publishers and 350 pioneers active in the preaching work.
Twice a year during the late 1920s, one week was designated for a special worldwide witnessing campaign.
Pioneers had a goal of 40 hours for that special week.
In January 1939, a suggestion was placed before congregation publishers.
A goal of 60 hours per month.
Early on, congregation field service reports were thorough.
Over the years, the forms used to report publisher's field service activity have been simplified.
Reports have consistently included back calls or return visits, Bible studies, publication placements and hours spent in the disciple making work.
As was the case back then, there's always a story behind a field service report.
The first time I walked into a kingdom hall, when I was 16, I saw this chart on the stage.
And I realized this organization is concerned about what we do, what we say, and how much we say about Jehovah.
I realized that from the start.
So that after the third month of studying, when I started going out in field service, I wanted to turn my time in too.
And they showed me how to do it, and I've been turning it ever since.
Ellen and I were invited into the special pioneer service in 1966.
The monthly requirement was 150 hours and 50 return visits.
It was a good incentive.
What we had a quota back then of 150 magazines, one for every hour,
a special pioneers or missionaries.
And one day we run into our fellow missionary and his wife on the way to the movies.
They went every Saturday, every Saturday, but this particular Saturday says,
I can't go to the movies because I don't have my 150 magazines.
So I've got five more to go, and then we can go to the movies.
Let's start in 1961.
We were sent a special pioneer.
Third pioneer in a trailer of five hours of service every day.
And getting our time was no problem.
Living for a month or $100, that was a problem.
So Dave said, I'm going to go out and get a job.
By that time they had put a new store in town, beautiful.
He would now do that store and told them, I'm going to work one day a week.
What are you going to do the rest of the time?
So he said, well, I knock on doors and tell them about God's kingdom.
It's really, this is my door.
Knock on it.
He came in the truth. His wife came in the truth.
Children are in the truth.
And they had a secretary, didn't they?
She had seven children.
And she said, well, I'd like to study the Bible too.
And we would study with seven after they had supper.
The beauty of it is that they did so well.
Yeah. After that, we studied with the parents.
So by the time we got through it, it was probably almost midnight.
And we took our circuit over to you there.
And he said, I'm too old for this midnight shift.
I never felt it was a question of getting the hours in.
I always try to make them quality calls, you know,
try to say something with the people.
Not just go there and get the magazines placed.
Or my Bible studies, I would try so hard to really get to know the people.
But it was never just a question of getting an hours.
We're trying to save lives.
Isn't that wonderful to hear from those dear faithful ones?
And Brother Butel is now 100 years of age.
And Sister Butel is 98.
What a good start on living forever.
As we've seen, the arrangement for reporting our field activity
has served a valuable purpose for many years.
However, as Brother Flegal mentioned in the opening talk of this symposium,
Jehovah's people are motivated to praise Jehovah because of our great love for him.
Sharing in the ministry also reflects our sincere love for our neighbors
and our love for the good news.
We engage in our ministry not because we fill out a report each month.
We might say that our ministry is our personal gift to Jehovah and to our neighbors.
But Jehovah is realistic.
He knows that many of our brothers and sisters are limited by circumstances,
such as advancing age or serious health issues.
Others cope with the rising cost of living, civil strife, war, or opposition to our work.
The reason COVID-19 pandemic greatly limited what many of us were able to do in the ministry.
Some who have preached faithfully for decades may be embarrassed to report little time in the ministry.
If that is true, you should you feel that you have failed in some way, not at all.
Note the principle at 2 Corinthians chapter 8 verse 12.
For if the readiness is there first, it is especially acceptable according to what a person has,
not according to what a person does not have.
If we're giving Jehovah our best, he wants us to rejoice in what we do,
not to feel guilty about what we cannot do.
The Scriptures associate sacrifices to Jehovah with joy.
For example, Nehemiah chapter 12 verse 43 says,
On that day they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced.
For the true God made them rejoice with great joy.
Can you imagine Jehovah judging an Israelite unfaithful because his tenth was less than another person's tenth?
Of course not.
Everyone's circumstances and abilities are different.
Brother Loish explained that although tithing was a requirement in ancient Israel,
Jehovah did not require others to monitor or keep track of each person's tithing.
Tithing was entirely between the individual Israelite and Jehovah.
The governing body believes this same principle can be applied when it comes to reporting our time spent in the ministry.
Our ministry involves much more than counting time for this reason.
We are pleased to announce that beginning November 1st, 2023.
Congregation publishers will no longer be asked to report the amount of time they spend in the ministry.
Nor will publishers be asked to report their placements.
The videos they show are their return visits.
Instead, the field service report will simply have a box that will allow each publisher to indicate that he or she shared in any form of the ministry during the month.
There will be one more box where publishers report the number of different Bible studies they conduct.
This simplified report serves a valuable purpose.
It will allow us to know the number of active publishers in each land.
It will also help us to know whether certain territories are producing Bible studies and where there is a greater need for pioneers, special pioneers, missionaries, and Kingdom Hall.
Although publishers will no longer report their time in the ministry, we all want to follow faithfully the words of Colossians chapter 3, verses 23 and 24.
Whatever you're doing, work at at whole soul as for Jehovah and not for men.
For you know that it is from Jehovah, you will receive the inheritance as a reward.
Slay for the master Christ.
The governing body is confident that you dear ones will continue to render whole soul service to Jehovah by doing all that you can in his service.
And just as Jehovah richly blessed faithful Israelites who generously supported the tithing arrangement, he will richly bless your sacrifice appraise.
But wait, what about the Nazarite arrangement?
Is there a similar provision in the modern day organization? Certainly.
We all do well to imitate the Nazarites example of self-sacrifice and courage.
However, as Brother Loesch explained, the Nazarites had to meet certain requirements that were not expected of Israelites in general.
The same is true of modern-day pioneers.
They have volunteered to devote a certain number of hours to spend in the ministry.
Thus, auxiliary and regular pioneers, special pioneers, missionaries and circuit overseers and their wives will continue to report the number of hours they spend in the ministry, along with the number of different Bible studies they conduct.
As you know, the governing body recently reduced the hour requirements for auxiliary pioneers, regular pioneers, special pioneers, field missionaries and circuit overseers and their wives.
It gave us great joy to do that and we are convinced that as a result, even more will be able to join the ranks of the pioneers.
Why are we so confident of that? Because of what it says at Psalm 110, verse 3,
your people will offer themselves willingly on the day of your military force.
Yes, Jehovah promises that his people and young ones in particular would reach out to do more in this time of the end.
Many pioneers eventually attend the school for kingdom evangelizers.
They become special pioneers, field missionaries and even circuit overseers with their wives.
We thank Jehovah for those who reach out to serve as pioneers.
But let's thank for a moment what this adjustment will mean for all of us.
Isn't it true that reporting our field service activity each month has served as a reminder?
Our monthly report reminded us to be regular in the ministry, to use our various publications and videos and to make return visits.
But what about now?
Will we still be conscientious about having an active share in the ministry each month?
Remember that with the tithing arrangement, each individual was responsible to give their full tie to Jehovah.
Likewise, each of us will want to set personal goals to make sure we have a zealous share in the ministry.
Love for Jehovah will move us to have a schedule to make sure the ministry continues to take priority in our lives.
What will these adjustments in reporting our ministry mean for you elders and circuit overseers?
It will be even more important that you brothers be discerning shepherds.
You will have to know the flock well, for example, evaluating a congregation's spiritual health or a brother's qualifications to serve as an elder or ministerial servant will not simply be a matter of computing averages, time spent in the ministry, literature placements, and so forth.
No, you will have to know the brothers.
What is their attitude toward the ministry?
Are they zealous for pure worship?
What is their reputation in regard to the ministry?
Do they take advantage of opportunities to give a witness?
Do they help others to do so, including the members of their family?
As we have discussed, Jehovah clearly deserves our best, and we demonstrate our love for him by exerting ourselves in the ministry and in all other aspects of our worship.
Jehovah loves you for that, and we love you for that.
We know you will continue to manifest the spirit expressed at Psalm 54 verse 6.
It says, I will sacrifice to you willingly.
I will praise your name, old Jehovah, for it is good.
So we have no doubt that you will continue to give Jehovah your very best in the disciple-making work.
But is there still more we can learn from the scriptures about the way we conduct our ministry?
If so, are additional adjustments appropriate at this time?
To find out, let us give our attention to Brother Mark Sanderson, a member of the Governing Body, who will share the final talk in this symposium entitled Love People Make Disciples.
Well, brothers and sisters, hasn't this been an amazing program?
This is truly a historic day in the history of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And maybe our hearts right now are more full of love and appreciation for our wonderful God, Jehovah, than ever before.
We've deepened our understanding of Jehovah's mercy, his compassion, and his patience.
And what about that announcement about our field service reporting?
Jehovah is dignifying us. He has confidence in us.
You see, why do we go from house to house? Why do we do cart work?
Why do we make telephone calls and write letters and make return visits and start Bible studies?
Why do we do all of these things? It's because we truly love our amazing and wonderful God, Jehovah.
As Brother Flegal emphasized in his talk, at Matthew 22 and verse 37, Jesus identified the greatest and first commandment.
You remember what he said? You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind.
But is there something else that moves us to make disciples? Yes.
It's what Jesus said was the second greatest commandment. Jesus said, you must love your neighbor as yourself.
So we must love God, but we must also love people.
Now why is love for people so important? Well, because when we see that someone cares about us, we are moved even if we don't know that person.
For example, maybe someone you've never met before does a kind deed for you. Maybe they open a door for you.
They pick something up that you've dropped or they help you carry a heavy load. How do you feel?
Well, you appreciate their kindness, don't you? And as a result, you're more inclined to want to listen to what that person might want to say to you.
You see, when we sense that someone has love for us, we open up our hearts. Well, unselfish love is so powerful.
It touches the hearts of those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life.
And Jesus said that his true disciples would be identified. They'd be recognized by the love that they had in their midst.
Well, isn't it true that so often brothers and sisters say that what it was that drew them to the truth was the love they felt from their Bible teacher or from the congregation when they began to attend meetings?
Well, very likely that same love was what drew you to want to become a disciple of Christ Jesus.
Well, for that reason, at the 2017 annual meeting, the governing body encouraged us to begin to think more about conversing with people.
And at that same meeting, you remember we simplified our teaching toolbox so that we could become more familiar with the various tools that we use in the ministry.
You see, we want to carefully consider each individual's personal situation, the concerns that they have, the interests that they have, and then be flexible in choosing a topic that we want to discuss with them.
Well, for several years now, our midweek meetings have provided us with sample conversations, with suggested scriptures, and even with a suggested link to help us to continue the conversation at a later time.
But is there a challenge sometimes with a memorized presentation?
You know, I think back when I was a brand new pioneer, one day I was out with his sister in the ministry.
As we were going to the door, you know, she was actually mouthing her presentation. She had it perfectly memorized.
And suddenly this woman came to the door, she opened the door, and here she was, beautiful older lady, hair done, makeup on, beautifully dressed, looking like she was just going out.
The sister was so flustered, she said, oh, I'm sorry, did we get you out of bed?
Yeah, memorized presentations. Not always good. Well, maybe we've memorized presentations, and sometimes we felt like we're giving a talk when we're at the door.
But what if the person has a very specific interest? What if they have some special need, or they're facing some terrible challenge just at the time when we're calling?
Well, we want to look to the example of our Lord Jesus Christ. He set the perfect example for us.
He showed love for people by choosing subjects that were appropriate for each individual, and his personal interest in individuals attracted people to the message.
Well, for example, do you remember the time when Jesus had a conversation with the Pharisee Nicodemus?
Now, Nicodemus was impressed by Jesus' miracles, and he approached Jesus at night probably because he was afraid of the Jews.
Now, as a Pharisee and a teacher, Nicodemus evidently must have had a very great knowledge of the Hebrew scriptures, so what did Jesus do?
Well, he shared something with Nicodemus that was completely new.
You see, he talked about new truths about being born again, and about seeing the kingdom of God.
He explained to Nicodemus that he had descended from the heavens, and that he was the only begotten Son of God, and that he was the way to everlasting life.
Well, I'm sure you'd agree that even though Nicodemus was a teacher, he received quite an education from Jesus on that night.
But now, does that mean that Jesus took exactly that same approach with everyone that he met?
Well, no, not at all. You see, on another occasion, when Jesus spoke to the Samaritan woman, his approach was completely different.
Evidently, the Samaritan woman had a very basic knowledge of the Hebrew scriptures, so what did Jesus do?
Well, he noted the things she was interested in, like obtaining water, and why Jesus, as a Jew, would speak with a Samaritan.
Well, Jesus also took an interest in her family situation.
He noted that she was very concerned about why did Jews worship in one location and Samaritans in a different location?
What did Jesus do?
Well, he talked with her about the things that interested her that were of concern to her.
He helped her to see that worshiping was spirit and truth was more important than the location where individuals would worship.
And how did that woman respond?
Well, the Bible says she left her water jar there at the well, she went into the city, and she gave a powerful witness about Jesus.
She was so effective that the Samaritans invited Jesus to stay, and many put faith in him.
So now, what do we learn from these two simple accounts?
Well, Jesus did not use a memorized presentation.
He just talked with people, and he shared with them the truths that he knew would touch their hearts.
He was very quick to choose topics and words based on the interests and the concerns of the person that he was speaking to.
Well, now, with all of this in mind, you may be wondering what you're supposed to be wondering about.
How can I display that same love for the people that I meet?
See, wouldn't it be wonderful to have a little bit more help to see how we can show love for people and make disciples?
See, wouldn't it be wonderful to have a publication that would help us to be more flexible and more responsive to the different needs and interests of the people that we meet?
And what if that publication highlighted specific ways that Jesus and other first century evangelizers showed their love as they made disciples?
Well, you will be happy to know that Jehovah's organization has produced just such a publication.
It's a 32-page brochure entitled, Love People Make Disciples.
But now, would you like to see a little preview of what this brochure contains?
Please watch the following video.
This new publication, Love People Make Disciples, is being made available in both print and digital formats in over 400 languages.
How is the brochure designed to help us show love for people we meet?
Unlike the tools we've used in the past, this new brochure does not give us expressions to memorize, nor does it put the emphasis on leaving literature.
Rather, it features 12 lessons that focus on qualities we need to cultivate to make disciples.
All the lessons are based on Bible accounts, in which Jesus or another first century evangelizer displayed a specific quality in the ministry.
The lessons will help us see how we can imitate the qualities they demonstrated as we make disciples.
Each lesson contains a video that brings the account to life. A woman of Samaria came to draw water.
Give me a drink.
By cultivating an interest in people, we can talk about things that are on their minds.
What truths might we share with people once a conversation is started?
Appendix A highlights basic Bible truths that we love to teach.
Make it your goal to learn these basic truths and the scriptures that support them.
If you do, you will be more effective in starting conversations and in making disciples.
For example, a conversation can be started by asking a simple question, such as,
have you heard that God will soon end all suffering? Or, did you know that the earth's environment will be restored?
Sharing a simple truth at the right time is powerful. Jesus said his sheep would listen to his voice.
In other words, rightly disposed ones will recognize the truth when they hear it expressed simply.
Appendix B helps us to determine whether to continue a conversation.
Appendix C provides practical suggestions on how to conduct Bible studies and enjoy life forever.
What if you don't feel comfortable starting conversations? Don't worry.
Beginning in January 2024, the apply yourself portion of each midweek meeting will help us to practice the points we are learning in this new brochure.
The meeting will no longer focus on presenting a predetermined topic in scripture.
Rather, students will select topics for their assignments that they know are on the minds of those in their community.
By means of realistic demonstrations, audience discussions, and talks, our meetings will assist us to develop skills that will help us start conversations naturally and adapt to each person's concerns and needs.
By focusing on people, we will become more comfortable and more effective as we make disciples.
As you consider each lesson, think carefully about how you can demonstrate the highlighted qualities when conversing with people in your community.
Ask yourself, what are their concerns and needs?
As you go about your activities, be observant.
Look for appropriate opportunities to help people in practical ways.
Acts of kindness can open the door to share kingdom truth.
Show that you care by listening to others when they express themselves.
Share a simple truth at the right time.
Remember, our goal is not to memorize a presentation, but to demonstrate Christ's like love to everyone we meet.
This will require patience, perseverance, and commitment.
No matter where we live, or under what circumstances we are preaching, simply showing love will help us to find joy in our ministry.
More than any specific technique, actively expressing our love for others will help us make disciples.
We indeed thank Jehovah for this wonderful new tool to make us more effective in our ministry.
Of course, the question you may be wondering is, when will you receive your copy of this new brochure?
Well, you'll be pleased to know that it's going to be made available to all congregations in electronic format and in most places in printed format by November 6.
In addition, this entire four-part symposium will be posted on JW.org on November 6.
So that all of our brothers and sisters will hear the information in this symposium at the same time.
Isn't that great?
Of course, we're all going to want to read the brochure.
We're going to want to watch the videos.
But wasn't it wonderful to hear in this video that the governing body has arranged to make use of this new publication beginning in the month of January during our midweek meeting?
So we're going to get the opportunity to put this into practice right away.
So what have we learned in this four-part symposium?
In Part 1, Brother Flegal reminded us why we love Jehovah and how our love motivates us to want to praise him.
In Part 2, Brother Losh explained the differences between most Israelites and those who volunteered to be Nazarites.
In Part 3, Brother Heard helped us to see that although congregation publishers will no longer report their time in the ministry, this in no way diminishes our individual responsibility to make disciples.
And finally, in this part, we received a new tool that will help us to show our love for people and to make disciples.
It's really amazing to witness, as Jehovah's people, the fulfillment of Isaiah chapter 60 and verse 17.
You remember the prophecy there?
It says, instead of the copper, I will bring in gold, and instead of the iron, I will bring in silver, instead of the wood, copper, and instead of the stones, iron.
And I will appoint peace as your overseers and righteousness as your task assigners.
Well, what's the point of the prophecy?
You see it outlines that good materials would gradually be replaced by even better ones.
And that's exactly what we have seen.
I think back in the 1930s, when our brothers became so zealous in the ministry, they went out with phonographs and testimony cards.
But of course, at that time, they didn't speak.
Either the record did the speaking or people read the card.
My mother loved to tell the story about being in the service with her pioneer partner.
The door opened, she handed the man the testimony card.
Of course, it didn't say anything.
The man started to read it, suddenly his wife called out, who's at the door?
The man said, I don't know, there's two deaf women here, and I'm trying to figure out what they want.
Well, that was the reality.
We weren't speaking.
But how Jehovah improved the situation?
He trained his people how to give an effective witness.
And then we had publications like reasoning from the scriptures that helped us to learn how to use the Bible to reason with people.
And more recently, Jehovah has given us this marvelous tool, enjoy life forever so that we can conduct much more quality Bible studies.
And now with the release of this brochure, we're going to focus on people and talk about the things that are of interest to them.
And in that way, endeavor to reach their heart so that they can become disciples.
Well, it's true.
With each of these organizational adjustments, we went from something good to something better.
And I think with the things that were announced today, isn't it true that we're seeing that again?
We're going from something that was good to something even better.
And I think we'd agree, too, that Jehovah is helping us to mature as a people.
He has confidence in us that our concern is not merely the number of hours or the publications that we place that we're going to put on a report.
We love Jehovah, we love people, and we want to make disciples.
And so what does all of this mean?
And what does it not mean?
Well, first, these adjustments do not, they do not mean that we are in any way slacking off in our ministry.
It does not mean that we are slowing down as we approach the Great Tribulation.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
Right now, we have more than 50,000 applications from students who want to attend the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
We're appointing new missionaries, new special pioneers and temporary special pioneers,
and an army of new regular pioneers.
And in some lands like the Philippines, sorry, I have to mention the Philippines,
we're experiencing record growth.
Can you imagine a 9% increase this year with a new peak of 253,876 publishers
and 12,954 baptized just in this last year?
Isn't that amazing?
So please know, please know that in no way is the work slowing down.
Our ministry has never been more important than it is now.
So what then do these adjustments mean?
Well, they do mean that our motivation for carrying out the ministry has been even more clarified.
You see, we share in the ministry because we love Jehovah and because we love people.
So this is the time when we want to be busy in Jehovah's work.
Do you remember Jesus' parable of the master and the three slaves?
That parable was designed to teach us what we need to be doing while we're waiting for the end to come.
Two of those slaves were industrious and they doubled the master's money.
And as a result, they were blessed.
We want to have that same industrious, diligent spirit.
We want elders and ministerial servants and pioneers to take the lead in the ministry.
But all of us, we all in our personal ministry want to be even more zealous in what we want to accomplish in our ministry.
What an exciting time this is.
The governing body sincerely hopes that many more will come to join us in serving Jehovah before the end comes.
And remember, Jehovah delights in rewarding his people for their faithfulness and for their generosity.
So with the great tribulation fast approaching, have no doubt that Jehovah will soon richly reward you as we all give generously of our time and our effort to love our amazing God, Jehovah, and to make disciples.
As you are able to see, part one is of historical proportions and most exciting.
Part two will be available on jw.org in January.
Our postcard for this month is from Albania, a small country on the Adriatic Sea.
For much of its tumultuous past, foreign powers have come and gone, each bringing with it a different mix of peoples, cultures, and religions.
Albania is a beautiful land, scattered with lakes and crisscrossed by rivers,
idealic beaches dot the coastline, such as the aptly named Aquarium Beach, a beautiful spot for snorkeling.
The cat of a star Lagoon, the largest in the country, is the home of the Dalmatian Pelican, the largest of its kind, measuring up to 1.8 meters long.
In Romans chapter 15, the Apostle Paul reported that he and his companions had thoroughly preached the good news.
They had traveled as far as Elyricum, a Roman province that included part of what is today Albania.
It is likely that some in the region became Christians at that time, for secular history reports that Christianity took root in Albania in the first century.
In the 1920s, some Albanians learned Bible truth while living in the United States.
After getting baptized, some returned to Albania, eager to share these precious truths with family and friends.
In 1928, Lazar Nasson and Petro Stavro traveled from the United States back to Albania to show the photodrama of creation.
Many responded, and despite political turmoil, economic reversal, and at times vigorous opposition, the number of kingdom proclaimers has grown steadily.
Today, there are more than 5,400 publishers serving in 89 congregations.
From Tirana, the capital, the branch office cares for the work in Albania, and the 228 publishers in its northeast neighbor, Kosovo.
Let's visit the city of Lushnia, located in West Central Albania.
The Lushnia-Vario congregation preaches in a territory that covers around one-third of the city, as well as 21 villages in the Musice valley.
The preaching work in the villages yields good results, and meeting attendants regularly averages over 130%.
They are happy to host a Romani language group.
Though some publishers live in villages outside the city, they are happy to attend the meetings in person.
Some walking one hour from their home to the kingdom hall.
The 77 publishers of the Lushnia-Vario congregation send you their Christian affection and greetings.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.